---
title: Weekly Assignment - Unit 9
due: Oct 29
layout: forum
---

- **9a**
    - 16.1.A - B
    - 16.2.III
        - Provide Roman numeral analysis
            - As always, this includes labeling all NCTs.
        - You do not need to provide "contextual" analysis. (i.e. Tonic, Dominant, Pre-dominant)
    - 16.3.I 
        - The instructions are helpful; although make sure that you actually create an NCT rather than another chord tone.
    - 16.3.II
        - This example is from before common practice harmony, so you will see some chords that are not common in our current studies (e.g. a minor v chord.) Review your Roman numeral usage if necessary, and label exactly what you see.
        - Be careful in measure 42. As described in the instructions, you do not need to use a Roman numeral on beat 2, because it is a passing sonority. More confusingly, all of the beats are obscured due to poor rhythmic notation. This is exactly why we discussed "ideal" rhythmic notation back in Unit 3. You may wish to turn all of the long notes into shorter notes that are tied together, so that you can clearly see how each beat lines up.
    - 16.3.III.A
        - The figures in this example create multiple voices within a single line. You will need to consider measures 1-4 in the treble clef as two separate voices, and the entirety of the bass clef as having at least two voices.
    - 16.4.B 
        - Provide Roman numerals with inversion figures, leadsheet symbols, and of course, non-chord tone labels. 
        - Do not complete the table or the question.