---
title: Week 12 Assignment
due: Apr 15
layout: forum
---

- **Workbook - Chapter 37 & 38**
- Due Monday, Apr 15
    - 37.4.(1)-(3)
        - For question (1), use pc *integer* notation (fixed zero) for the first two column.
        - For question (1), you do not need to do the third column (SC Forte number)
        - For question (2), only answer the first of the three questions. (i.e. How many set classes...?)
        - Question (3) is asking you to relate the letter before the `=` to the letter after the `=`. It is confusingly written because T stands for transposition and I represents inversion, but they are just mixed with the letters (A-J) from question (1). For example, E = T_ C is asking you find the transpositional relationship between (e) and (c) from question (1). There are two possible answers for all of these, one positive and one negative. You will receive credit for either.
        - Do not complete question (4).
    - 37.5.I.B
        - Note that his continues on the back of the page.
    - 38.1.I.A
    - 38.1.II.A-D
    - 38.3.A
         - Because the hexachord that they are labeling as P<sub>0</sub> has only six notes, you cannot build a standard matrix using twelve pitch classes. Instead, you should build two charts similar to the charts we built in Unit 23d when first learning how to group inversions of a trichord. If you create one chart for the prime form (P) and a second for the inverted form (I), you can then just read it backward to find the retrograde of both (R and RI).
         - Remember your labeling conventions! Retrograde forms are labeled by the last pitch, not their first pitch.
    - 38.5.B and D (no A or C)
    