---
title: Final analysis project
due: Apr 29
layout: forum
---

- **Final analysis**
- Due Monday, April 29
- Full harmonic analysis of Movement 1 from Schubert, Quartet No. 8 in B-flat Major, Op. 168
    - [Print a copy of the score from this link](http://conquest.imslp.info/files/imglnks/usimg/7/7c/IMSLP03948-SchubertStringQuartetNo8.pdf). You only need to print pages 1-8, because you do not need the second and third movements.
    - Recommended recording: Takacs Quartet: *Schubert String Quartets No. 8 and No. 10* (available on Spotify, iTunes, Google Play, and many other services)
    - Roman numerals with inversion figures
    - All non-chord tones labeled
    - Leadsheet symbols for every Roman numeral
    - Form map - a visual representation that quickly shows the structures of the piece
        - Must include the major sections of a sonata-allegro form. For this piece that is:
            - Exposition
            - Development
            - Recap
        - Nested under these three major sections you must also label all minor sections. For this piece that includes:
            - Introduction
            - Primary theme
            - Transitions
            - Secondary theme
            - Closing Section
        - Must have label each key change throughout the piece
        - Must have measure numbers for each item above

### Tips for harmonic analysis
- Begin with leadsheet symbols. There are a lot of modulations, and you will waste a lot of time re-writing Roman numerals if you start with them.
- Label non-chord tones as you complete your leadsheet symbols. You will likely forget them if you wait to add them later.
- If you get stuck, just keep going. Come back to the difficult chords after you have a broader context.
- Cadences matter because they define your key areas. Listen to the piece many times while following the score, because your ear will recognize these much faster than your eyes.
-Keep an eye out for repeated passages, so you don't have to re-analyze music that you already completed.